Okay, let's start with our code flow. The most important, the most crucial part of this video. Why? Because in the code flow we are going to build all the six microservices complete full microservices project we are going to build in our code flow. I'm going to show you explain you step by step complete LLD low-level design. Okay, that's why I told you no need to watch my full video ever. Just watch the code flow, understand the code flow and that's it. And you can code at your own

whatever project it is. I guarantee. Now let's see what we're going to cover in this video. Okay. So at first service discovery ureka service okay we'll create the ureka service we'll do the configuration I'm going to show you everything don't worry okay ureka registration discovery obviously the second service we'll create is API gateway single point entry with authentication most important okay most important and I also created a dedicated video on these two topic on my channel

you can just go and watch please watch it if you don't know what is these and what is a use everything I've covered. The third is interervice communication. Obviously, we'll use the fain clients for synchronous calls. How our services contact to each other. Suppose user wants to issue the book, borrow a book, then borrow service, there is a borrow service needs to contact to the user service for the user information, book service for the book information. So how these two services different different

spring boot projects contact to each other pain clients how don't worry code flow is there I'll explain you in the code flow and when we code okay the fourth thing is asynchronous messaging rabbit MQ for notification most important also I have created a crash course which is available free in our YouTube crash course on rabbit MQ you can go and watch it okay so most important But in case when email fails okay uh user issue a book will send the email okay you have issued this book but if the email fails then rabbit MQ

then database per service okay we're going to use a separate databases for each service so we'll use the posgress okay posgress fine super popular nowadays then distributed transactions obviously and then cir Circuit breaker f client resilience another important topic of microservices we'll add another important topic of microservices see I told you if you are going to do project with me then no need to learn the microservices explicitly okay we are going to cover everything in a most beautiful way I guarantee it

okay And these all are my student feedback. You can just go and check the comments of any video. Okay fine. The next thing is and see and this is the best way. The example is in front of you. Codeflow I can also go and directly code and you can just copy and paste. No, I want you to code so that from the next video you don't need me to help you. Okay. The last thing is do an architecture. Okay. notification events through messaging and one more thing remaining that is email implementation. We are going to

implement email obviously for the email notification. Okay to complete our project. See how many things we are going to learn in this project. Okay. And from basic no prior knowledge needed. Okay. One thing uh if you don't know what a ureka service API gateway you can go my and watch that video rabbit MQ also crash course available on the channel okay so this is what all about we going to cover let's deep dive and start our code flow okay fine okay let's start our step one pay attention

so let's consider this is our user user wants to borrow user user. Okay, user wants to borrow a book. Okay, to do that, first user needs to be authenticated. Okay, that means first user needs to login himself. So this is what our login page and uh username, password and this is what the login button. Okay, so user entered his username, password and then hit the login button. Now tell me and yeah in between I'm going to ask the questions and you need to answer me. Okay. So now once user hit the login button let's say

the URL pattern is slash slash user 1 second slash user slash login. Okay. So once user hit the login button the control goes to which service user service. No the control first hit the API gateway. API gateway. API gateway contacts to the Ureka server where all the services already registered themsel once we start our application. User service will create book service will create borrow service notification service all the services already register themsel with our ureka server. Okay. And then ureka server

responds with where my user service see login sign up authentication responsible for our user service. Okay. So uh okay so user service okay this is our one micros service one spring boot app will create user service. Okay so authentication part user service will take care fine. So, ureka server responds that our user service is running on the port let's say 8081. Okay. And then what API gateway will do is fine API gateway will proceed with local host at81. So it will proceed with localhost

at81 / user slash login. Okay. And then it will hit our uh method whatever method responsible for post mapping and then proceed with the login. Okay. rather hitting directly to the local host AT81. All the requests going to hit the API gateway which is running on the port base port at80. If you want to search the book first API gateway API gateway contact to the Ureka server ureka server responds that actual service is running on which port and then based on the URL pattern based on the URL pattern user login book. Okay.

and then proceed with the whatever process. Okay, back end I've already explained in a complete much detail using real world example with debugging uh API gateway and ureka server the video is already there you can just watch it okay fine this is what the login process okay and then uh we'll create in the back end login method authenticate register normal user register admin user whatever method okay the same thing we have created lot of projects the same login process using JWT authentication. Okay. JWT

authentication. Fine. So once logged in, once logged in, user user gets the JWT token is stored in cookie. This is the important part. Is stored in cookie. Okay fine. We are not going to use the local storage or session storage because uh those can be accessible using JavaScript that is security breach. So cookie is the best option for us. Okay already explained the past projects. Fine. So it validate the credential. It generate the JW token and return the response with the user details whatever

and then user gets the JWT token stored in the cookie. Fine. Login process done is step one done. Now in real world like this is the app once once you'll open you login and this is what the back end process so that you can think in that way and you can create at your own the coding that's why I'm just showing everything in the back end. Okay then once we log to the homepage then the first thing is we will we want to uh will search the books. Okay. the book we want to issue, we want to borrow that

book will search. Okay, so step number two. Okay, fine. Step two, uh, browse the book. Fine, browse. So, let's say we want to search effective Java. Okay, there's a book effective Java. Fine. Okay. So once logged in, let's say this is our dashboard. Okay. Where user redirected and this is the search bar. This is our search bar and you can search the books. Okay. So user just entered here effective Java and hit the this. Okay. So in this process we'll create another spring boot app another our service micros service

that is the book service. Okay. And in that there is one method we'll create uh search books. Fine. So once user hit this search button again the same thing API API gateway okay then ureka okay then ureka respond with on which port number our book service is running so let's say it is running on the port 8082 fine and then it will attach the URL pattern suppose the URL pattern is book and then search and then whatever query it is. Okay, fine. So it will just local at82 and then book and then search whatever.

Okay. So what we'll get is we will get it returns it returns pagenated list with availability status. Page list with availability status. Okay. Just like just like uh effective effective Java books with five copies available. Okay. So just like this whatever. Okay. We'll just configure it. So with availability status. Okay. We we need to configure it. Fine. And I mean to update it once borrow once return everything. Okay. Like full project. Fine. This is our step number two and the backend

process. Step number three. The main process. The most important step that is issue process. Borrow. Okay. User wants to issue the book or borrow the book. Fine. The most important. Okay. where uh interervice communication happens. Okay. So suppose the next is once user click on the search. Okay. Got the book and then suppose this is what uh you know uh effective Java. Okay. And here is the borrow button. Okay. Fine. So once click on this borrow button. Same thing. API gateway. Okay. So, it validates the

token. Fine. Backend process. It validates the token and fetch the user ID. Okay. And then contact to the borrowing borrowing service. Okay. Our next uh micros service next spring boot project that is the borrowing service. Okay. So, one second. Let me user service. Okay. API gateway ureka server is also fine. Ureka service. Okay. And then book service and then borrowing service. Okay. Fine. Now, now what? Uh, it routes to the borrowing service and proceed. Now, borrowing service needs to contact to the user service.

Okay. See, now user is borrowing the book. Okay. So, we need the user information also and the book information also at the time of borrowing. Okay. Like which user, user email, whatever. and the book information title author whatever. So our user service our bo uh borrowing service is spring boot project micros service needs to contact to the this these two services these two different services running on different different port okay so how many ways so we going to use the pain client okay and then API

gateway and then finally the user service okay to contact the user service in order to fetch the user details. Similarly again the borrowing service using the fain client okay to the same API gateway and this is what our book service okay so these two our different different you know microservices running on different port okay to fetch the uh book details next our code will check the borrowing limit borrowing limit. Okay. So a user a user can at max borrow five books. Okay. So our code will internally check in the database the

limit is uh reached or not. Okay. If this shows green signal then then what the repository part. Okay. Creates creates a borrowing record. Okay. So, it contains see I'm also going to show you like this. It contains a user ID. Let's say one book ID let's say five. Okay. Uh date date borrowing date. So borrowing date. So local date time dot now. Okay. And return date. Return date. So this is what the object. Okay. It will create a record in our table. So now plus 14 days. Okay. So 14 days should be

the you know uh need to return the book. Okay. And then status status should be the active. Okay. So this is what the complete record it will create. Finally checking everything. Okay. Like uh boring service. Okay. Repository JBA. Then then what? See here we just seen yeah so effective Java books available with five copies. One copy already borrowed. Now we need to update this availability. Okay. So again needs to again borrowing service will f client then API gateway and then book book service. Okay because see book

service controls the availability all the book information available okay unavailable whatever. So again needs to contact to the using F client to the book service and here we need to set availability to like previous minus one. Okay fine. So now it is total four copies available one already borrowed. Okay fine. Yeah understood. Yeah fine. So now the next is what notification see like how we are proceed like we are going complete process in the back end in the real world like this should be in real world uh you can imagine yourself

uh you open the app web app or whatever then login then you'll just search the book then select the book and then you you want to issue so just click on the issue find so in the back end this is happening okay and we'll only able to see the whatever fronted part and then the it again uh set the availability to minus one and then the notifications. Okay, Rabbit MQ email notification. Okay, fine. So again our uh borrowing service to rabbit MQ and then our notification service. Okay. So another service that is

notification service. Okay. One more rabbit MQ. Yeah, total. Okay, fine. So, uh one more thing there are a few guys who just ask why Rabbit MQ like okay we are al already send the you know sending the email. See uh Rabbit MQ is asynchronous communication. Don't make user wait for email. If suppose email uh you know implementation email sending failed then rabbit MQ is a asynchronous communication it's not a synchron see thread okay go java part thread synchronization one by one by one asynchronous communication

don't wait user don't wait for email okay rabbit MQ is responsible to send the confirmation uh like notifications or failed or whatever Okay, that is why the most important also I have created the crash course on RetQ. You can just go and watch it. Okay, so it will create a another message record. Okay. Yeah. And uh to save it into the notification service. So the record uh should be like user ID 1 book ID five and uh message type okay so we'll use the enum or whatever so it should be

like book borrowed okay and uh message book borrowed successfully and this is uh let's say the title. Okay. Effective Java. Yeah. Yeah. So this is what our most important step that is borrowing. Okay. That is what uh the user want. Okay. User wants to borrow the book. Okay. Now 60% done. Okay. The other 40% remaining. Okay. Fine. important one. So the next step is step number I guess four. Okay. Notification processing. So notification processing. Okay. So the back end process it will listens

to the rabbit MQ. Okay. Q. What is Q? Okay. Everything I explained in the Rabbit MQ crash course. Fine. And then publish the message. Saves the record in the in the database. Okay. Database. What record? Notification record. Okay. See uh it also you know using the fain client calls the what uh user service. Why? To fetch the user information. Fine because it is responsible to send the mail. So to send the mail we need the user information. uh email id okay username whatever and also what book service book

service okay so in mail we need to include this book is issued so book title book author whatever so that's why okay fine now step number five step number five so it includes a functionality will also develop the functionality so that user can check his borrowings. Okay. So what tell me what so we need to display all the borrowings. Okay. So what all books I have borrowed this there this there this there this there this there's five four books. Okay. So in that books we need to display the book information. Okay.

Sophie inclined book service and then we'll display the borrowings. Okay, list fine important functionality as I promise we need to develop each and everything. Okay, the complete after this nothing is remaining the resumeumé ready, perfect interview ready and whatever you can just use any word. Okay, so it's complete microservices project. Then step number six, daily overdue check. Daily overdue check. Yeah, daily using another important annotation that is add scheduled annotation. Add schedule annotations. Okay. Why? Why

daily? Because suppose a user got past the 14 days you know return um restriction. Okay. Suppose if on 1st of May I have issued a book and I need to return 14th till uh you know before 14th or till 14th after 14th then there will be a fine mails notifications everything so that's why daily overdue checks. Okay. So same thing F client and uh borrowing service. Okay. And then it will just we will okay we are just checking the borrow date return date and then um calculating the fine calculation. Okay. Then sending

the mails that uh okay 14 days passed okay this is the find this is what this is what daily yeah that is what daily fine okay calculation everything okay so this is what can happen in actual okay real time fine most important okay otherwise how library will earn okay I'm just joking fine so the last step is remaining is return process Okay. So this is what one side and the last is the return process. Suppose on 13th I need to return or whatever fine or whatever on 13th on 28th with fine without fine I need to return. So

return process. So if user so user wants to return then user can see just like this all the borrowings. Okay. So effective Java and there is suppose return button here return. Okay. So user clicks on the return button same thing API gateway. Okay. And whatever and contacts to the which service borrowing service. Okay. Borrowing service. Okay. It routes to the borrowing service and then what uh yeah so there is a method return book. Okay. So return book. Okay. And then uh the next step is update

the local DB local databases. Okay. Fine. And then the next step is because the user returned the book. Now what? Tell me. Book service pain client. Okay. Book service. Okay. So also update same thing. Update DB there too. DB. Okay. Whatever. + 1 minus one + one. Uh availability. Now book is available. 4 to again five. Okay. And the last thing is Okay. Whatever the last thing is um what notification. So yeah notification. Okay. And it's like the confirmation mail. Okay. Confirmation notification

like book return book returned and whatever book details user details whatever. Okay. So this is what the entire back end entire code flow. Okay. From the starting. Okay. And we'll cover all the scenarios from both the sides. Fine. So yeah. So uh at first you open the you want to you want to issue or brow uh borrow a book. Okay. For that you need to user needs to authenticate it. Fine. username, password, login to the API gateway running on the port at80. URL server responds based on the URL pattern. Okay.

And routes it with the us uh user service port localhost AT81 user service login whatever. And this is the method is responsible for authentication. What it will do? It will validate the credentials, generate the token and finally user gets the JWT token stored in the cookie. Fine, that's done. Now okay now the dashboard you can browse the books okay effectively Java whatever okay and then again hit on the search button API gateway ureka and route to the book service book service okay then you can see okay this is what the

paginated list and availability fine you want to uh borrow the book step four borrow uh step two to step four. Okay, fine. A step missing. No worries. Okay, just a step. Okay, fine. So now borrow. So API gateway validates the you know token backend process. Okay, fetch the user ID. Borrow service routes to the borrowing service and then now borrowing service needs to contact to both the services. User service to fetch the user info. Book service to fetch the book information. Okay. So here uh yeah

f client you're using f client and uh then we need to check the borrowing limit. A user can only at max book uh uh borrow the five books. Okay. Whatever you can keep. Okay. Infinite. Okay. Fine. So five books. So once this uh you know this person gives me the green signal then it will creates a borrowing record contains user ID, book ID. Okay, obviously we'll map. Yeah, definitely will map. Then borrow date. Now return date + 14. That's it. Yeah, + 14 is the default for uh all the library. Okay,

I'm telling for my Okay, so status is active. Active active. Okay, then uh yeah, we need to update the databases. Okay. So, F client book service availability minus one and then borrowing service to the rabbit MQ notification service. It will create a record which contains user ID book ID type is uh book borrowed. Okay. Enum will create and then book a message book borrowed successfully and title. Then step four. Ah step four now it got corrected. Okay. Step three. So is step number three. Yeah. Okay. So

step four is notification processing. Okay. Listens to the rabbit MQ. Okay. And save the record in the databases. Then F client user service and book service to fetch the user information. In order to send the mail, we need to include these all information. Okay. Fine. Next is yeah user can check uh check his borrowings. Fine. What all books he borrowed? Find f inclient book service to fetch the book information. Then daily overdue task using add schedule annotations. Fine. Why daily? Because we need to check the the return

date. Okay. If it got passed then we need to send the calculate the fine and then send the mails notifications. Okay. Rabbit MQ whatever. Fine. We are really good in you know notifications because I have created a dedicated video on uh that also the sending emails. Okay. So there is one video Gmail application. Okay, there are three parts. The first part is I've shown you how to send the mails entire. Okay, you can just go and watch it. And then return process. Yeah. So API gateway return boring service

update the local DB F client book service update the DB there too. Availability and then notification confirmation mail. Okay, fine. Book return. Fine. So this is what the complete code flow. I hope you get the everything. Now your job like you can consider that okay fine I understood this now it's my job I can code as much as I can okay you can code as much as you can okay I'm not saying like fine you can just I want the entire uh you know complete project I'm not going to code the next part okay no I

will code but just code as much as you can if not then video is there you can watch the full video. Okay. Also, uh source code is available. Complete source code is available on the description. You can just but once you'll try then only you you have to open that source code. Okay. Fine. So now the next thing is let's deep dive into the coding part. Let's get our hands dirty and code it step by step. Okay fine. So let me go to my browser and uh create the set up the project. Okay. Okay. So here is the browser and uh

let's go to our spring initializer. Let's set up our project. Okay. Yeah. So at first let's set up our ureka server. Fine. So one second. library ureka server. Okay. Yeah. Now let's add the dependency. Okay. So we need to add this ureka server. Okay. Let me show you explore. Oh, one second. Here should be Maven. Okay. So explore and yeah you can see spring cloud starter Netflix ureka server. Okay. Ureka server not client. Fine. And uh yeah that's it. Okay. Java and uh see configuration so

ML fine then properties application.properties properties application do yiml. Okay, so ML and Java 17. Let's keep it 17 and yeah generate it. So let it download. Okay, done. Now what else? Others. So others are API gateway. Okay. Then user service, then uh book service, then borrowing service, and then notification service. Okay, fine. So let's set up these projects. Library. Next is API gateway. Okay, please pay attention here. It's important part. Okay, setting up the project. Uh yeah, fine. Now here

from now we need to add URA client because all of those service API user uh book service borrowing service need to register themsel with Ureka. Okay. So they are the client and Ureka is the server. Fine. So let's remove it and let's add the Ureka. See here not server client. Okay. Let me also show you this spring cloud starter Netflix ureka client. Okay. Fine. Yeah. The next is API gateway. Okay. So actuator. Uh one second. Add dependency. Actuator. Okay. And one more dependency we'll add it externally. Okay. That is

uh starter gateway. Okay. Yeah. So, API gateway EML 17 May 1. Okay. Fine. We need to change the version also. So, we'll do it when we'll code. Okay. In the pom.xml. Okay. Let's generate it. Okay. Done. The next is user library user. We need to set up all our microservices. Okay. Okay. Fine. So, now yeah. So, all other services also need to register themsel with Ureka. So this client remains same and uh yeah is springing web then uh JPA then we are going to use the posgress so driver and

then uh spring security and then uh validation and then uh Lombok okay then uh Dave tools yeah spring boot tools and o to resource server okay you can Spring Boot integration for Spring Security's OOTH resource server features. Okay. And then one more dependency that is JWT. Okay. So we'll add it externally. Okay. Rest is Yeah, that's it generated. So library use service. Now just we need to change the names. That's all. Book service and these all remain same. Yeah. for all book surveys, borrowing service,

these all remain same. Okay, we going to use the different different posgress. Okay, JPA, spring uh web client whatever same. So generate it library book service. Okay, then uh borrowing service generated then uh notification service generated. Okay. So, all six services. Let me go to our yeah folder and then extract it one by one. Okay. So, see now you can do at your own. Pause the video and you can do at your own. Okay. So, first is library ureka and what extract all. Okay. Extract it. Yeah. Then gateway

extract all extract. Then library user service, book service, borrowing service. Okay. And library notification service. Fine. Okay. So, these all are our projects. Okay. Now, let me go to my Eclipse. Okay. You can choose any editor IntelliJ Eclipse. Okay. Fine. And uh import Maven existing Maven projects. Browse and uh yeah. So, first Ureka Ureka select folder. Finish it. Then the same thing for all. Import existing Maven browse and then API gateway. Okay. Finish it. Then user service. Okay. And then

import existing Maven projects. What? Book service. Okay. Book service. Finish it. And then import existing Maven projects. Browse borrowing service. It's running in the back end. Okay. And then what the last one is notification service. Okay. Select folder. Finish it. Fine. So let it import. Okay. Yeah. Okay. Fine. So few things we need to add and uh need to make the changes. The first thing is in our API gateway. Okay. In our API gateway pom.xml. Okay. So okay fine. One second. Let me appearance.

Okay. Basic text font. It should be consol. Yeah, now it looks good. Okay. So we've added the actuator and ureka client in our we need to add one more dependency that is API starter gateway. Let me go to my and you can just type what is spring cloud starter gateway mvn. Okay mvn you can see a spring cloud starter gateway mvn repository. Just click here and yeah the current version is 4.3.2. Just copy it. Come to your popular XML. Paste it here. Control shift F to format. I don't need this.

Okay. Not the comments. Okay. Save it. Fine. So this is the first change. Okay. And the second change is what? uh we need to add we need to add the JWT dependency in our in all our this uh you know services obviously we need to add the JWT security okay so we need to add the dependency the second thing is we need to change the version and is spring cloud version okay so 3.2 2.0 and you can see it should be 2020 3.0.0 and uh this should be 3 2.0. Okay, because spring cloud works best with this version. Okay, that's it.

We need to make the changes. The first is need to add the JWT dependency most important. Okay, security and need to change the version. Okay, so let's do it. Uh we need to add the JWT dependency only in our four services. Okay, because see the security part plays a role in only four services. User service, okay, user need to login. Then book service, search the book, borrow the book and notification service. Rest all is uh the rest of two API gateway and that ureka service don't need okay just need to

change the version okay so let's start with our ureka please focus here okay pom doxml ureka and here 32 okay and the version is 2023 uh 3 okay that's it server and Yeah, fine. Okay, let me close this. Fine. And then the next is um API gateway. Okay, so here to 3.2.0 and the Spring Cloud version is should be 2023. Okay, let me save it. and now user service. Okay, here from here need to change the version and the second thing is need to add the JWT dependency. So let me go to my browser and type here

Java JWT MVN. Okay, the very first com.0 Java JWT. Okay, the very current version is 4.5.0. Just copy this and yeah so user service first thing is first need to change the version okay spring cloud version 2023 and also need to add the dependency okay fine I don't need this okay let me copy this and do same thing. Okay. In the next is book service. Book service first the version 2.0 cloud version 2023 and the dependency. Okay. Fine. The next is our borrowing service. Uh first change the version 3.2.0. 0

cloud version 2023 and the dependency. Okay. Fine. And the last is notification service. Okay. Okay. And the cloud version. Fine. Okay, save it. Fine. Now let's start coding our ureka very less. Okay, just we need to uh add the configuration. Okay, yml file application yimml that's it. And then so what we need to do is the first is ureka. Okay, need to add the configuration YML. Second is API gateway. Okay, most important because here we need to set the routing. Okay, routes. We will route uh all our services based on the

URL pattern I told you. Okay, suppose user hit the login button. The first control should go to the API gateway. API gateway then contact to the Ureka at which URL pattern. Okay. So this is the URL pattern it will he knows. Okay. API gateway knows. Fine. Based on that URL pattern URA tell okay this is the port uh it's running service is running. Okay fine. So suppose user API user local host 881 what I explained you in our code flow and then proceed next. So these routing we are going to set in our

these API gateway yml file. Okay. So most important please focus. Okay. And let's start. Okay. Fine. So now at first ureka okay so library ureka server go to the application file and need to add one annotation that is enable ureka server okay you can see or dopring framework.cloud.netetflix Netflix ureka server enable ureka server okay most important fine the next is let's go to our application.ml and let's add the what configuration okay so the first is server server dot port so the default port is 8761

one. Okay. Then let's add the few configuration. Fine. Okay. Ureka client then register with Ureka that is false. Okay. I don't want the Ureka server also register with himself. Okay. All the other services should register themsel with Ureka not Ureka itself. Okay. and the fetch registry registry false. Okay. And server enable self preser preservation to false. Okay, that's it. Server port spring application name. Yeah. Now, uh let's turn off the login level. Okay. Netflix logging level. Fine. Okay. So,

logging level com dot netflix dot ureka of com dot netflix dot discovery of off. Okay, that's it. Okay, see there is nothing much configuration. Everything is self-explanatory. Fine. much easy no not that much okay because the actual thing comes when we'll code the API gateway configuration okay let's start fine so that's it for uh you know library ureka now we need to add few configuration code in each and every microservices to register themsel with ureka Okay, we need to add a few configuration

code in the user service so that user service register add the same thing for the book service notification borrowing API gateway. Okay, fine. So let me close this chapter over. Let's start the main chapter that is API gateway. The first is enable discovery discovery client. Okay. So org.framework.cloud client discovery enable discovery client. Now pomxl uh not pomxl yml. Okay fine. Application name library API gateway. Let's start. So it's in the spring. Fine. So it's spring dot cloud.

Okay. You can see is spring and then just like spring dot application.name. Spring do. Cloud dot gateway dot discovery dot locator locator dot enabled true and lowerase service ID also true. Okay, we can just write our service ID lower case. Fine. Okay, one sec. Discovery and then Okay, then uh in the gateway. So, spring dot cloud dotgateway dot routes. This is what the main picture. Okay. Now let's route the user service. Okay. Fine. So we need to just pass the URL pattern and everything else. Okay.

And one by one same thing you need to do for all the services. Okay. Fine. So first is ID. So let's keep the ID as user service. Okay. And then uh what URI? So URI should be LB load balancer and user service. Okay. Then predicates. So it should be path equals API users and then fine. And the last is filters. Okay. So name group or replacement. So rewrite rewrite path. Okay. So the first should be API users. Okay. And then segment. Okay. or API users then dollar segment. Okay. For replacement

fine oh it should be curly braces and here too. Fine. Yeah. The same thing you need to write for all the services. Same thing user service. Okay. The next is uh book service. Just change the user ID here too and the path URL pattern API books and here too API books. API books. That's it. Yeah, do it yourself. Pause the video and do it yourself. Okay, fine. And then let me finish it. So let me copy it. Uh paste it here. Fine. Same thing. Paste it here. And same thing, paste it here. Okay. So,

user service, this is the book service. ID book service here to book service. URL pattern. Let's say we'll keep the URL pattern as API books. API books. API books. That's it. Okay. Simple. Fine. So, the next is borrowing service. Okay. Uh, borrowing service. Fine. And then borrowings. API borrowings. Okay. The last is notification service. Okay. Notifications. Fine. That's it. Done. Okay. Yeah. So, routing is done. Next is what? So, next is we need to register this API gateway with the ureka. So, that configuration.

Okay. So it's like ureka client service URL default zone http localhost localhost and our urek is running on which port 8761 we have already set it. Okay, if you remember 8761. Okay, so and then Ureka. Fine. And then Ureka. So instance prefer IP address true. Okay, that's it. Only this code we need to write the same code. we need to write in every service uh application file to register themsel with ureka so that internal service communication is easy okay like they know like uh the other services running

on which port so that they can talk to each other okay fine definitely we I already explained you in the our code flow yeah and rest all configuration that is uh logging level gateway timeout and everything else so we'll add it externally at the time will run. Okay. So what we'll do is we will first the next is we are going to code our first important service that is user service. Okay. This is done. Okay. Almost this is done. Only thing remaining is all the four services working then book service then borrowing service

and then notification service. So let's finish it and run it. Okay. and then see whether our gateway routing ureka and all these API is working or not. Let's try to loging sign up whatever it's working or not. Okay, let's do this. Done. Uh testing done and then let's code the book service. Let's test it. Short testing. Okay. And then borrowing in the notification and then entire testing using debugging mode. Yeah. Happy. Okay. Let's do it quickly. Fine. So user service you can also do because

we have built so many projects and uh till now we are you know expert in this user login sign up using JWT authentication. Okay. Yeah. So you can also try or just watch the video. Okay. Fine. So let me also just close this. Save. Okay. And the first is at enable discovery discovery client. Okay. Yeah. In every uh you know application file on every service you need to just mention this. Okay. The next is uh class user and the packages entity. Okay. Fine. Then uh first let's uh you know create the completed skeleton. So

package should be what? Controller. Okay. Then the next is service. Okay. Then the next package is config. Okay. for the security config then DTO new packages dot DTO then what uh okay fine exception exception okay then uh what that's it okay yeah so that's it define config controller DTO entity exception service and one more that is most important JPA okay that is repository okay fine yeah so now let's start with our user okay at entity at table users. Okay. And builder. Okay. This is important

one. Okay. At the time we'll just set the values. We'll use a builder. Okay. Yeah, that's it. Let's add the fields with validation. private private long ID private string uh email private string password private string first name private string last name. Okay. Then private user user role role. Okay. Should be enum. Fine. Then uh private and uh what boolean active private local date time created at okay private local date time updated at okay let's add some validation add. Okay.

Generative value strategy should be identity. Okay. And column. Okay. Nable false. Okay. And unique true. Fine. because we will uh let allow users to login using email password sign up with email password. Okay. Okay. The next is column same thing for all these nullable false. Okay. Fine. So validation. Okay. Simple validation for the role. It should be enumerated enum type dot string. Okay. Fine. Then user role. Okay. So we'll create public enum user role. Okay. And uh there are two roles. The first is

librarian. Okay, that is admin. And the second can be member. Okay, member. So that's it. Done. Next is is active. Okay, fine. Local date, time created at and updated at. Okay. So for these let's public void pre persist this dot created at equals local date time dot now at preperest. Okay, same thing. public void pre-update pre-update this dot updated at equals local date time dot now. Okay, fine. and pre oops update. Yeah, that's it. Okay, so our user uh entity is done. The next is DTO.

DTO. Okay, the first class is what? Register request. Okay. When user needs to register himself, uh, register request DTO. Fine. Okay. The same thing for login. When user tries to login, so login request DTO. Okay. And then what? Response. Okay. So, login response DTO. Okay. And what the last one is user DTO. Okay. What will pass? So uh to register one second add data and uh what we need now to register what all fields we need. So what private string email private string password. Okay. Then private string

first name. Fine. Private string last name. Okay. Yeah. Once user needs to register. So we need to ask first name, last name, email, password. Okay. And uh can you add the validation at your own? Okay. Just like not blank message first name is required. Okay. Similarly, similarly last name is required. Okay. So, last name is required. Fine. In case of email just add email. Okay. Message invalid format. Okay. And password at size minimum six. Okay. and message password must be at least six characters. Yeah, that's

it. Validation. Okay, fine. So, this is what once user uh register. Similarly, so user once try to login. So, we'll allow user to login with email and password. Okay. So, login request DTO. Okay. login request DTO. Fine. So, email and password. Okay. Data and let's builder. Fine. DTO. Yeah. Now, user DTO. Okay. So, user because we are going to use the user DTO. Okay. And one thing is one rule for the user DTO is we should not include the password field in user DTO. Okay. So rest all field let's include. Okay.

So I already added uh ID, email not password, first name, last name, role active, created at. Okay. You can also add there's nothing there's no big deal. Okay. Now login response. What response we want? So first we want private string token. Okay. And then private user DTO. User DTO. Okay. Add data at builder. Okay. That's all our DTO finished. Now let's go to the our directly controller. Okay. Okay. So new class and user controller. Fine. REST controller request mapping and API

users. Okay. If you remember the URL pattern we have set here in our API gateway EML file. Okay. User service and uh yeah API users. Okay. So based on this URL pattern fine the control should hit on the whatever method we'll write here. Okay. So for example, we have written the method here as login register uh user register uh librarian. Okay. Get profile. So these method return here in our user controller have the URL pattern API and users. Okay. So now if user hit any of these URL okay for example uh login so it

should be what API users and then login. So gateway will contact to the ureka ureka based on this URL pattern tells that it is running on the port 8081 or whatever and then it will go forward local host 881 API users and the login part okay already explained you in the code flow okay fine yeah let's start one more thing let me also create the service classes this. So let's create two service classes. User service. Okay. And uh authentication service. Okay. So authentication service in this

in this class uh we will write only the authentication code login and generate the JWT token. See in this project I am not going to explicitly create the JWT package and then authentication filter and uh JWT service class. No. Okay. Just that is what that is why we have added this dependency. Where? Where? Where? Uh yeah. Can you see Java JWT com zero and what this one spring boot starter O to resource server. Okay, just I'll tell you just we need to write a small code a method to generate the token. That's it. That's

it. Know that uh complex not complex it's a you know basic you should know. So if you want to learn then just watch my previous videos project videos I have explained in detail like first you need to create the JWT package then JWT authentication filter what it does then service in that we'll check the expiration everything else okay but in this let's go direct direct okay nothing that big deal fine so let's again move to our user controller okay and let's start writing our what

methods So first is the register member public response entity user DTO register member and request body. One second. Add valid and the DTO. Okay. Register request DTO. Fine. And what? Register equals DTO. So post mapping. Okay. And what? register fine now one question I'll ask you and uh you need to answer in the comment section fine so what I'll get is I'll get user DTO user DTO of equals so let me auto wire the private final user service okay and required Als constructor. Okay. No add auto

annotations use this way. Okay. So in the user service we'll create the method to register. Already we are master in it. Okay. And I'll pass the register uh and return response entity dot status. Okay. HTTP status dot created dot body and one second response. Okay. Response. Yeah, that's it. And we'll create this uh method in user service. Okay. Service class. Same thing. Now ready for the question. Register librarian. Okay. Admin member. Fine. Same thing. Same. Register request

DTO and register librarian. Fine. Now if you have seen my past videos, past project videos, I have created a different class to register uh this member, normal member, user and admin. Okay, library is admin. Fine. Who will issue you the book? But in this I have written both in the same class. What is the harm in that? The harm in that is a normal user can also register as a librarian with this API. Okay. He will hit localhost 8081. Okay. Whatever domain name API users. Okay. Then this register and librarian. So it will open

a form username whatever first name last name register and it he will also register as a librarian. So there is a security breach. Okay, that's why in the past projects I have differentiate okay I created a different class like uh admin registration controller okay and I have added the class level security so that no one can access it but here I return in the same class but I don't want to create a different class what is the solution simple solution is simple okay pause the video and you can just write in the comment

section Okay, fine. The solution simple is will not allow the user to hit this API. We'll add the checks. How? Request matchers. Okay, we'll just set uh API users register dot permit all in our config class if you remember dot any other request dot authenticated. Simple. So this is API user register and star but we have not allowed this just API user register. Get a point. Okay fine. The next is login. So public response entity. Okay. Now the response should be the login response not the user DTO. So

login response DDTO. Uh then login at request request body valid at valid. And uh here login. No no no the return should the response. Okay it is response. Fine. I need the response login response once once I logged in. So I need what token and DTO user information. Fine. Here I'll pass the login request. Okay. Fine. So login response DTO response equals now O service dot login request DTO and return response entity dot okay response Yeah. Post mapping login. Okay. So here o service. Okay. We

have created two classes. Authentication service and user service. User service is responsible for registration. Get the profile information. Authentication for login. Authenticate. So authentication service. Okay. Let me also autowired. Not auto wired. Use this authentication service. Okay. Fine. Yeah. Now just need to create give the implementation of these methods. Here it should be register librarian. Okay. One more method. Let's create it. Public response entity user DTO and get user profile info. Okay. Authentication.

It should be the uh remember this interface. Okay. Authentication interface. Fine. user DTO response equals uh user service dot get user profile information. Okay. pass the authentication and return what response entity dot okay response fine this is a get mapping get user profile okay fine let's give the implementation of these meth methods. Okay. Register member in our user service public user DTO. Okay, I'm getting the register request DTO. H okay so at first let's check whether this user is already registered or not

okay so how repository so let me first final user once again let me create first the interface okay so user repository. Okay, fine. Extends JPA repository and user log. Yeah. Okay. Now what? User service. So user repository. user repository and required asks constructor. Yeah. Now let me check whether it exist or not. So user repository dot exists by email. Okay. And then let me pass the email. Okay. Requested So get email h and let me create this method boolean exist by in the user repository boolean and uh

uh let me pass what email. Okay fine. So then okay if the user already exist then throw new exception. Okay so user already exist exception and uh user already exist. Okay, let me create this class in our exception interface H okay extends runtime exception and the constructor use already exist exception a string email okay super email fine that's it. Okay, fine. Now back to our let me Okay, import it. If not exist, then fine new user. So we need to create the user user equals user dot builder. Okay, we have already

added add builder. Okay, that's why. And we'll set the values which I'm getting here. Okay, user will type. User will type there is a form. Okay, so request DTO we want what what are the fields we kept that is the first name, last name, email, password and then registered. Okay, so it will set here and then we will set in the user. Okay, after creating the object. Okay. So, builder dot first name dot last name dot email dot password should be encoded dot active true dot local date time dot now

and uh what else? Last name role H. So user role dot member dot dot build. Okay. Now here what register request dto dot get first name get last name get email and here need to private already did. Okay, just a piece of cake for you guys. Already did password encoder H and password encoder dot encode dot get password. Okay, that's it. And now need to save in the database repository part. So user saved user equals user repository dot save and this user. Okay, it will give me the saved user but I need to return the DTO

not the user entity DTO. So need to convert to user DTO. Okay, let me pass the saved user and uh let me create this method public which will give me the user DTO and to user DTO I'm getting the user from here same thing user DTO equals user DTO dot builder And uh what what all fields ID, email, first name, last name, role, active created at. Okay, so it's done. You can just write do ID do email and user dot get ID get email. Done. And then return user DTO. Okay, fine. So now it is converting to

the user DTO and then returning it. Okay. Same thing for the register librarian. Register librarian. Okay. Our another method method this one. Fine. Okay. Register library. Okay. Same thing like is exist. Okay. Okay, first name, last name. Here the rule should be librarian. Okay, where we have set in our user entity if you remember enum library and member roles. Okay, fine. And the last the third method is user controller login method. So we'll give the implementation in authentication service. Okay. Get user

profile info. this method or okay okay let me pass the email get name now you'll get the uh email so in the user service let me create this method public user DTO okay I'm getting the string email and user user user Repository dot find by find by email if not found or one second first let me create this method in the user repository it should be optional one second optional util Okay. And what? One second. User. Okay. User. Find by email and a string email. Okay. So find by email dot or else throw

new user not found exception user not found. Okay, let me create this exception also. class. Okay. Extends runtime exception constructor user not found a string message super. Okay. Fine. Uh, okay. Message. Okay. Message user not found already exist. Okay. Back to the user service. Fine. Now if found then return it. So return to user DTO and let me pass the user. Okay. Uh let me also done okay now everything is done only one method is remaining that is login okay let's give the implementation in

our authentication service I'm getting the login request login response need to pass authentication service public log login response DTO login I'm getting the login request and okay first let me check okay first let me get it uh so user user repository final required constructor user repository dot find by email dot get email or else throw Oh, user not found. User not found. H here. Okay. Fine. Next is need to check the password is correct or not. So we have the password encoder private.

Okay. If you remember there is a method matches password encoder H. So password encoder dot matches and it takes two values. So matches let me hover the first parameter is raw password what user is entering. Okay. So suppose you this is what the login form username password and login okay so user entered ABC fine okay this is what the user enter password here I'm getting the user user complete user entity also contain the password which is in the database on the database the actual password suppose So

the actual password is uh a b c d. So here I'm m uh checking the entered password raw and the encoded one which is in the database. Okay. So great method. So the first is let me hover. Yeah raw password and the encoded second one. So raw password is coming from the get password and uh we don't need to decode matches method automatically do internally get password. Okay. If matches not if it doesn't match then then what? Throw new bad credential bad credential exception message is invalid

credentials okay fine if everything passes then let's generate the token okay JWT token so generate token and I'll pass the user okay we'll create this method here only and then return login response DTO dot it contains two things token and DTO okay so the token we'll get from here builder okay so the first field is token we'll get from here the second field is user dt okay so we got the user and uh let me copy this converting method here. Okay. So to user DTO I'll pass the user here. So

it converted to DTO and set in this field of our login response DTO. You know you better know the user uh the usage of this builder. Okay fine. H very good. and dot build h now only thing remaining is what generate token okay fine we'll generate the token public string generate token I am getting what user okay so return JWT okay dot create dot uh with subject with subject. Okay. So user dot get email. Okay. Subject email with claim. What are the claims? So role. Okay. Ro and user ID. Fine. So user ID. Okay.

user dot get ID with claim role. So user dot get ro dot to string. Okay fine. Then dot with issued at. So instant dot now with expired at. So instant dot now dot plus uh expiration time. Yeah. So private um string two things right. So secret key H and private long long expiration. Okay. Or I can say JWT expiration. So chronoounit dot seconds. Okay. And with sign. So algorithm dot hmac and secret. Fine. secret key. That's it. And these values will come from our yml file at value. Uh so JWT dot

secret thing dot. Okay. So where is our yml here jwt dot secret these value and expiration so whatever value we'll write here okay going to inject in these variables and here two okay and we'll get our token once we'll get our token that's it that's what our responsibility okay fine one more thing uh if you can do is uh for the error you can I've already shown you in one of the project global exception handler with error message class okay if not no worries code is already there in the description

the complete entire project code but first you need to try it okay nothing remaining we are very close to our first micros service testing in our user controller uh response. Okay, one second. One second. So, it should return the login response DTO. Okay, it is returning and uh in our user controller login method. Okay. Or response. Fine. Yeah. The only thing remaining is config. New class security config. Okay. Here we'll write our JWT decoder. Okay. And password encoder. We'll just declare the beans and filter

chain. Yeah. configuration enable web security and enable method security. Okay, let's start. This is also we have did so many times but remember what you need to permit all register. Okay, let's see. Okay, fine. Let's see. You can do at your own this security filter chain method. Please pause the video and do at your own. Okay. So, public security filter chain H and uh security filter chain HTTP security HTTP throws exception H. Fine. So now http dot uh what? CSRF. Okay. CSRF dot disable then dot session management.

One second. Return. Okay. Yeah. Session management. Session session dot session creation policy session creation policy dot stateless then authorize o dot request matters. Okay. So what API users and register and API users login. Okay. So if user any user try to access API user register and then star star. Okay. Librarian. So no it should be authenticated fine. So these two dot permit all then dot any request dot authenticated fine. Okay. So then dot o to resource server. Okay. O2 to O2 dot JWT H JWT

JWT dot decoder and JWT decoder. Okay, we'll create this method dot build. Yeah, that's it. See? And bean. Okay. Fine. One second. Yeah. Fine. So, we'll create this method. Okay. Before first, let me also password encoder. Password encoder. return new big crypt password encoder. Okay. Oops. Yeah. Now public JWT decoder. Okay. So return and uh token fine. So try catch let me initialize it catch. So JWT and what validation exception. Okay. E throw new JWT exception invalid JWT token E. Okay, it should be JWT verification

exception. Okay, fine. Now, first we need to decode the JWT. Okay, for that we need the secret key. Okay. Private string secret. So we'll get it same thing. JWT dot secret. Okay. Add value secret key. Okay. So decode JWT JWT dot require algorithm dot HMAC and secret key. Okay. So then dot build and uh verify with the token. Okay. Fine. Decoded. Okay. And then now return JWT dot with token value token. Okay. And then header. So there are two headers. Okay. We'll pass algorithm. Algorithm is what? HS 256.

And type So type JWT. Okay. Then subject. So now this is what the decoded JWT. We'll get it email whatever. Okay. Decoded. Okay. Decoded dot get subject. Then claim same thing. Okay. Claim. So I told you two things. Claim user ID and role. User ID. So decoded JWT contains these two. get claim. Okay. And uh user ID as long claim. Okay. Ro. Okay. So ro decoded JWT dot get claim ro dot as what? Sting. Fine. user ID long and the role is a string. Then uh issued issued at so decoded JWT dot get issued at

dot to instant expires at so decoded JWT JWT dot get One second. Get expire set dot to instant dot build. Yeah, that's it. Completed. Yes. Okay. Fine. So everything is done. Password encoder decoded and security filter chain. Now the only thing remaining is application dot yml file. Okay. So let's code it final and then run it. Okay. So once see the magic point is once we'll run it you'll able to write the code for other services by just seeing and recording the code flow. Okay. If you if

you watch the code flow properly then okay same thing same JWT same that configuration only thing is controller part okay and I already told you the methods okay if you can you can code else just code with me okay so here we need to configure two things the first is database configuration JPA, Postgress see yeah we are performing the queries repositories and whatever login sign up so we need to you know configure here database and then the second is URAka configuration let this user register with Ureka okay two things the first you

know second also you know so many project we did the same application.properties properties or YAML configuration. Let's do it. So, spring application name then is spring dot data source URL JDBC posgressql localhost 5432 and database name. So, library users. Okay, let's keep this. Then username Postgress password posgress driver class name or dot posgressql dot driver. Okay. Then JPA hibernate DDL lotto update. Okay. So that's it for our what database. Now ureka uh here one more show SQL true. Okay.

Ureka client service URL default zone http localhost 8761 ureka. Okay. and instance prefer IP address true. Okay, fine. Done. And here we'll write it. Okay, fine. So the secret key whatever and expiration maybe 24 hours, 1 hours, whatever. Now everything is done. user controller DTOS service exceptions repository service classes YML only thing remaining is let's test it out okay so what we'll do is we will run our URA server then we will run our gateway okay so it is running on 8761 it is

running on 8080 and our user service this one. So it is running on 8081. Okay, we'll configure it. server.p 8081. Fine. Let's do it. Fine. Okay. Done. So, ureka is running on 8761. Gateway is running on uh 8080 and our user service running on 8081. Fine. Now, user a new user wants to register. So, enter the username uh email, password, first name, last name and here register button. Okay. We'll do it from the postman. Once click on the register. Okay. So the URL the link should be localhost at80

API users and register localhost at80 the gateway the gateway URL. Okay. Now this gateway will contact to the ureka that this URL pattern service is running on which port. He will check that the user service already registered with the ureka. So he will check okay it is running on the 881. Then the it will route to the local host81 and whatever API users register and the user will be registered successfully. Then okay vanishes. Fine. So let's test our first app. Okay. Let's start our testing. Let's first run our Ureka

server. 1 second. 1 second. So we forget one thing. Did you noticed? We forget one thing that is we forget to configure our SQL. Yeah. See we are running the queries uh login register. Okay. So the queries are responsible just like select star from or insert into. For that we need to configure our SQL just like we used to do in our uh past projects. Okay. So we have the mysql installed in our local. So that we'll write here localhost and 3306 is the port number. In the same way we need to configure our

postgrace. Okay we are using the posgress. Now the interesting part is there are two options either you'll install the posgress software okay and configure it so that we can use the local host okay uh install the posgress in your local machine. The second is the most recommended one is no need to install the softwares and all rather we we going to create the docker compose dot yiml file. Okay, docker compose file and in that we are going to pull the image. we going to pull the posgress image by providing these password and

these and this uh database name. So the posgress image got pulled with these credentials and we are ready to use that. But how to configure I'm going to show you in coming in just few seconds. So please pay attention. Okay. So let's start configuring our posgress um uh using docker compose. Fine. So first the first thing is the first thing is you can just note it down also. Uh go to the main directory. Okay. Or I can say the parent directory where all these apps are placed. Okay. or unzipped. Fine.

Okay. Because these are the microservices. Okay. Four services, six services, eight services, 10 services, different different spring boot apps. And I want that I'll create just one docker compose. file for all. So that uh whatever see uh so we are going to use the different databases. So in just one docker compos yml file okay I'll configure it and for all the services. So uh that's why we are going to create this yml file in the parent directory. Okay fine let's do it. So let me go to the parent directory.

So properties in explorer. Okay. So in case of intelligj idea open in explorer. Okay. Where you have kept all the files. Yeah. You can see. So this is what the zip file we have downloaded from uh uh you know spring initializer and unzipped. So here let me open the command prompt. Okay. And let me open the VS code. Fine. So code dot fine. So it will open the VS code. Fine. Okay. Done. One second. Let it open. Yeah. So here you can see all the files. Okay. Because we have opened the VS code in that directory only. Fine. So here let's

create docker - compose. Okay. So, it is creating the file and in the meantime, in the meantime, one second. Yeah. Okay. So, in the meantime, if you haven't downloaded the Docker desktop, then please I'll recommend you to download. So, how download? Just docker desktop. Okay. And uh yeah, so you can see the very first link the #1 containerization tool for developers. Okay, then just go there and you can see choose plan or download docker desktop. So choose your windows your OS download for Windows, ARM 64, okay, Mac, uh

silicon and Intel chip, whatever. Fine. Okay. Okay. So once downloaded you'll open the docker and it looks like this. Okay. Containers, images, volumes, builds and whatever. Fine. So we need to create our container. Okay. It will automatically create. Okay. We will not create. We'll just run one command. Okay. Fine. So where is my Okay. So here in our docker composed yimml we are going to write one you know configuration this is what the configuration now don't ask me from where I have uh copied and

pasted the configuration it's simple okay see version I have written let me zoom it a little bit okay now it's good yeah version 3.8 See, I have already pasted the entire docker compose dot yiml link in the description. Wait, wait, wait. Okay, dude. Just directly jump into the description. Open and copy paste. No, just wait. Let me explain this. Fine. Yeah. So after let let me explain you can just go and copy and paste it but wait for second. So you can see version 3.8 Okay, the service is

fine and you can see here posgressql for user service. Okay, currently we are testing just user service that's why I have just added here user service uh posgress SQL uh you know the configuration fine in the description in the description you'll see once you'll open the link and uh you'll see the docker compos contains all the services like it's complete docker compos okay because because where is my that yeah because we have how many services user service notification ureka borrowing book

service okay so for all these services also I need to add the posgress you know configuration so you will see that but for now for now we are testing one by one okay so first user dv okay user the service then book service then borrowing service then notification service okay and uh in that you'll find like this user DB then one second let me just copy this and paste and then again paste so like this user DB then book DB then borrowing DB okay and also radius rabbit MQ configuration adding the volume. So complete entire

thing but okay but we are going to test one by one. Okay so just remove that and let's only pull for now let's only pull the user DB fine. So see image is posgress 15 environment variables env variables that is the db name what we have given library users okay if remember posgress user password uh username is posgress and posgress password is password no password we have given we have given what posgress only see database name we have given library users username posgress password also posgress Okay. So

in the docker compose okay ports 5432. Okay. And volumes user data. And this is what the path and volumes user data. That's it. That's it. Fine. Okay. Now we need to just run one command in our parent directory. So our parent directory. Yeah. Can you see a docker compose created? Let me open the command prompt. One second. It's already opened. Okay. in the parent diretory only. Fine. So here docker compose up - d. That's it. That's it. Yeah. Can you see running 0 by 1 and uh

user db pulling it is pulling the image. Okay. Let it pull. Let's wait for few seconds or maybe a minute or two. Okay. So I guess it's about to finish. Okay. Complete. And you can see library management created. And the container. Can you see container library management user DB1 is started. Okay. Let me go to my Docker desktop. Yeah. Can you see automatically the container created? Okay. Let me go inside. Yeah. So user DB and it is started. Okay, can you see posgress 15? Okay, 5432 is the port and library management user DB.

See, now we don't need to download the software. Let's pull it. And it's not just about the DB or this project. Okay, everything we can pull using the Docker. So, no need to just Okay, uh you have the MySQL, remove it. Okay, I'll pull it. Just run this command. Fine. What I'll do is in the parent directory I'll create a docker compos file. Okay. Inside it I'll just you know give the version and the services the volume name user DB image and env variables the port number and the volume path.

Okay. MySQL posgress whatever. And you can just mention the volumes. Okay. User data. Fine. User data. Okay. uh if suppose there are multiple DBs you uh you want to create copy copy this okay paste it here fine and uh user DB so like book DB fine it's not posgress it's my SQL whatever okay so no need fine and also you can just search on the you know AI and you'll get it it's super simple fine so it is a recommended approach why would I download the software. Okay. Now, so it's working. I I got I have configured

our what this uh Postgress uh SQL. Now let's test our application. I have already opened my Postman. So yeah, let's start. So first the the flow the flow should be the important the first you need to what run the Ureka server. Okay. So let me run my ureka server run as uh Java application. Okay. Okay. So it's running library ureka server fine. And uh yeah with port 8761 that is super good. Okay. So Okay. Okay. Yeah, it started the library ureka server application. Fine. Okay. Fine. Then the next is we need to start

our API gateway. API gateway. Okay. So run as same Java application. Okay. So let's start with our API gateway. Okay. So by default it is running on the port definitely 8080. Okay. Let it run. Yeah. Started on the port 8080. Okay. And started library API gateway application. Fine. Now the magic. Not magic. Now your job you need to point out the mistakes and why. Fine. Now let's run our what the main testing that is user service. User service. Okay. Because we need to test the uh user service endpoints only.

Okay. Register login get profile info whatever. Okay. So let's run our and yeah one more thing. So please don't forget to write your secret and expiration. Okay. The secret should be uh combination of what uh upper case lower case numbers special characters everything else. Okay. So here is my secret key and expiration. Let's keep it as 86 400 0 0 0. Okay. Fine. Now also we'll get error. Okay. Let's see. Okay. So, it's running our application library user service and uh definitely

we'll get an error. Definitely for sure. Let's see. Okay. Yeah. So our first error is unable to determine dialect without JDBC. Okay, there is some timing problem. Okay, fine. We'll add the dialect then to it will create this problem. Okay, fine. And uh yeah can you see federal invalid value for parameter time zone Asia Kolkata okay actually postgra will not take Asia Kolkata it will take Kolkata okay it's updated in the time zone so we need to update it to UTC format okay so fine so can you see uh in

the last it is saying unable to determine dialect. Okay, we haven't added a dialect but that is not mandatory. Okay, so I'll show you even will add dialect then to it will give me an error. database platform form and how to direct go to any Java file control shift T. Okay, and you can just type postgress QL dialect. Okay, there is a class file. Okay, Java people created already. You can just search the classes, right click, copy qualified name and come to your again application file and save it. Okay,

fine. Again let's run it. Run as Java application. So now we have added the dialect. Okay, just like we used to add in MySQL and everything else. Now again let's see the error will resolve or not. But that because the error is not about the dialect. Okay. It's about the uh you know time zone. Okay. It's starting fine on the port 881. Yeah. Can you see now the dialect issue is not coming. Just one error is coming that is yeah invalid. Okay. So let's remove it. Just like as before. Let me save it. And what you

need to do is if you'll uh face this problem fine on your application file right click run as run configuration we need to add the VM arguments okay the UTC time zone can you see arguments go to arguments and VM arguments paste this d- d user dot time zone equals UTC okay I've also added this uh you know this small time zone equals UTC code in the description you can just copy and paste it there okay you should not make the mistake fine just copy paste in the VM arguments okay and apply

fine and close it now see we haven't added the dialect also but just we have changes to UTC now run as Java application Then okay now let's see our library user service is started fine so okay at81 here fine and Uh Mhm. Mhm. Okay. Registered and started library user service application. Okay. Started without dialect because the problem is not about dialect. It's about the time zone. Fine. Now first let me show you the ureka dashboard. Okay. So go to your browser and you'll just type our URA is

running on which port 8761 right 878761. So yeah 8761 okay let's go there localhost and 8761 okay can you see this is the Ureka dashboard and can you see this instances currently registered with Ureka okay what are the instances API gateway and library user service because we are testing the user service and API gateway obviously. Okay. So these two are come here. AMI is availability zone one and status is up up or down up status and this should be one like the same number for all the you know uh services because all the

services are registered with ureka. Okay, I've already explained you fine. And we have also written the code to register with Ureka. Okay. In each of the application file, this is the URA client. This is okay. The same code we have written in the API gateway also. Yeah. Can you see this? So this is what the uh to register with the ureka so that the services can talk to each other. They know that fine they are running they are running on this port. Okay. Otherwise local host 8081 some is running on the local host 883 some 9090

what fine the second thing is let's start testing with the postman. Okay. So let's first test our where is my controller user controller and register API user register. Okay. So, localhost and see I have written the port as 8080 not the port which our user service is running. See it is running on the port 8081. Okay. And our API gateway is running on the port 8080. Okay. By default port. So where is our API gateway? Ureka server. Yeah. Library API gateway. Okay. And you can see it started on port

8080. Fine. So this is what the I want to show you. I'm going to hit the API users and register. Fine. and body raw text JSON. Fine. And so user controller is taking register DTO which is first name, last name, email, password. So first name, last name. Okay. email and password. Fine. Post request post. Now what I'll do is first let me send it. So yeah uh API users service on unavailable. Okay let's see why it is giving me this error. Okay so service unavailable. H okay let's see no server available for

service user service. User service is the ID we have given in the API gateway. See how you are going to debug it. Fine. So use a service. Okay. So instead of this we need to give here in the routing when we'll route our services in the gateway we need to give the ID as what the application name library user service library user service okay and uh I need to restart that. Where is my API gateway? I guess this is what the API gateway. Yeah, let me terminate it. Okay. And what again? Let me restart.

Because the user service is unable to find that means the ID should be the should be same as what? Uh the application name okay the application name library user service see I am doing hidden trial I don't know anything fine I'm doing hidden trial how to debug how to resolve the error microservices errors okay so it started now let me again try it the same thing same nothing change. Okay. Registered. Yes. Uh so you can see insert into users and whatever hibernate ID one. This is what my last name, first

name, role as member. Okay. Active true and created at this. Yeah. Can you see like how we debug? You have seen right like it's saying there is no user service available no active profile for user service. So definitely user service we have given the id okay let's change to the same uh the service which is running the service name id okay did it fine now let's login so localhost and login in the login post request body So I am logging in using the email and password. Okay. So what is the email I have given?

Okay. And password I given as okay. Let me send it. Yeah. So I got it the token. I'm expecting that only I got the JWT token. Fine. Now using that token let me uh you know what? Let me get the profile information. Okay. So local host and so API users and get user profile info. So get user profile info get request body nothing authorization JWT not be error token and yeah not that the token I have copied okay a user token okay because I have logged in now I need to access the API. Fine. Get. Okay. Send.

Got it. I got my profile information. I'm the member. My last name, first name, active, ID, created at. So with the token, remove the token and just send it. 401 unauthorized. Obviously already did in so many projects. Okay. Fine. So this is what our uh I guess the testing yeah that's it else you can just test at your own register uh librarian and whatever okay so see now register librarian if you'll just librarian okay and again post request so let me change few thing yes dh okay and first name. Okay. Password

also. Fine. Now we are allowing here just request matchers permit all API user register. Okay. Normal user can register normally with the API. But suppose if some person try to just hit this register library and enter these details and send it. So 401 unauthorized because any other request authenticated. Okay. Only these two permit all. Fine. So you better know. Okay. We have did so many projects. Did the same thing. Fine. So this is what we have done our library user service. Okay. Finish the job done.

Now now the next is library book service. Okay. borrowing service and notification service which requires Rabbit MQ. Obviously already I explained the you know created the crash course for Rabbit MQ and borrowing service notifications and book service. Okay fine. Uh I guess the video is getting very long. So let's do one thing. Let's divide the complete package this library management microservices project in two parts. One is the code flow and uh user service plus testing that we have did.

The next is notification borrowing and book service plus testing and debugging. Okay fine. So and yeah one more thing please and please don't tell me like in the comments that uh you should uh fine create the entire video in one go. No worries for that. I already pasted attached the entire code source code link in the description. But but but please don't open it directly without watching the video. Okay? Because see in there you'll not get how to resolve this that fatal time zone error.

Okay? I'm getting so many you know messages uh for from my offline uh students that uh we have just copy and pasted the same code and it's running but uh when try to run the user service or any other services notification I'm getting this fatal and not able to resolve okay even AI is failed okay because you need to watch like why this error is coming okay for that you need to watch the video okay fine But please at least please don't uh skip the code flow. Okay fine. So this is what the entire

uh source code attached once you'll try yourself and then open the source code. Okay. And copy and paste your and just hit it. Okay. Also you can just add in your resume because we have used so many technologies in this. Okay, fine. Then uh let's see you in the next video completing this project. Okay, thank you.

